Today let's start looking at the links with open source projects.
I will clone GitHub repos here under directory
    ext


I first looked at
    https://github.com/wbrent/convolve_tilde
which is a
    partitioned impulse response (IR) convolution external for Pure Data
I briefly looked at the code. It's in C which is good (optimized and straightforward).
It seems to be doing only the actual IR convolution, the core logic,
without it being related to any plugin or anything.
It's quite short, a single source file of ~850 lines of code.
From what I understand it's doing it in a "partitioned" way
which seems to be a more optimized way. It might be a good source of optimized code.
It doesn't build to an .exe but instead to a library that should be loaded in
    Pure Data
which is a visual programming language for creating interactive computer music and multimedia works.
So we can't easily test it and use it, it needs some integration, but other than that looks ok.


Now looking at
    https://github.com/csteinmetz1/NeuralReverberator
First of all it's a VST plugin.
What is VST?
    Virtual Studio Technology (VST) is an audio plug-in software interface
    that integrates software synthesizers and effects units into digital audio workstations.
For further clarification I asked ChatGPT and it said that
    VST is one of the most popular plugin formats for all DAWs
So that's good. VST is plugin format and it can integrate in any DAW.
What else?
It seems to be doing a lot more than what we need.
Of course we can get only a part of it, but it will be hard to find which part exactly.
It's a student project and the IRs are used for training a neural network.
The final idea is that users of the plugin can select dimensions and properties of a room
and it will generate such IR.
We don't need all that. We only need the actual IR code.
I looked through the code and it seems the actual IR code is not there at all.
There are these .hdf5 files under
    train/models
that seem to contain the training models that are already trained on the IR data.
Soooo it's probably no use. Only thing is we can see how a VST plugin is created but we can find better sources for this.


Now looking at
    https://github.com/tapecanvas/n-ir-ns
This seems promising.
It uses a few other references/libraries/repos,
but the code itself is very short and kinda clear.
It seems to be using some engine
    CroneEngine
in some weird file
    Engine_Nirns.sc
Not sure exactly what it does but it looks like what we need and it's short and easy.
There are 2 example .wav files and I think I can just run
    nirns.lua
and it will work? Should try some other time.


Now looking at
    https://git.hq.sig7.se/ir.lv2.git
It looks very good.
It's exactly what we need. Actually it's exactly what we're doing overall :D
It looks like good stable code, fairly readable, very optimized, written in C.
There are compile instructions and overall documentation of what different terms mean, etc.
There is even visualization of the waves.
I think that will be the one.


Installed Reaper.
